# Directions for Credits

## __NOTICE: This section assumes you have fully completed ALL prior instructions.__

## Getting Started
Congratulations! You have successfully created two awesome VR projects. Now it's time to put your name on your work and cite the work of others. After all the previous instructions, this will be an easy, though very important, piece of cake. The credits will combine the use of buttons, text, and an animator one last time.

1. Navigate to the Main Menu scene. Under the canvas, create a new button called ButtonCredits. You can duplicate one of the other buttons and change necessary settings for ease. Adjust the button size, text size, and text content to a position, look, and message that conveys its purpose: To display the credits. We will set the button actions at a later point.
2. Create a new empty game object called CreditsDeployment and make sure is it a child of nothing in the hierarchy.
3. Create an animator by the same name and attach it to the CreditsDeployment game object. Create an animation called Credits and make sure it is <b>NOT</b> set to loop. We will record the animation after all elements are in place.
4. Duplicate the existing canvas and make it a child of the CreditsDeployment game object. Change the new canvas name to CanvasCredits. Drag the BlackFadeFront image to be a child of only the CanvasCredits, drag the Text object under the Panel object to be a child of only the CanvasCredits, and delete all other children of the Canvas Credits. This is done to ensure all proper components are attached to the canvas without having to refer back to the set-up instructions.
5. Rename the BlackFadeFront image to Black Fade Credits and adjust the size to cover the whole front wall and its Z position to be slightly in front of the front wall.
6. Adjust the text object to a position where it appears to rest on top of the Black Fade Credits image. Adjust the X position and text size so that it sits on the left side of the center of the black image properly. Name this text object Text Titles. Set the text to be bold and the alignment to right aligned. For the actual text content, enter each Title that you want to give credit to with spaces between each line. For example, our titles were Developers, CodeVA Sponsers, VCU Mentor, Auditorium Asset, Instrument Assets, Solar System Facts, Music, Instrument Audio, and Instrument Facts. It is okay if not all text fits on the image at one time as the credits will be scrolling. Some titles will differ for you. The proper spacing between each title required will be determined after we add all names to each title, so let's do that now.
7. Duplicate the Text Titles object and name it Text Names. Drag it to the right side of the center of the black image. Make sure the text is <b>NOT</b> bold and that the alignment is set to left aligned. Change the text to display the names of all titles with spaces between them. You may have to go back and forth between the Text Titles and Text Names object to get the spacing right for each.
8. Next, below both of these text objects, we want to display a thank you message for the player. Duplicate the Text Names object, change the name to Text Thanks, and the alignment to center aligned. Change the text to display "Thank You for Playing!". Position this text underneath a little ways and centered between the Text Titles and Text Names objects. 
9. We are almost ready to implement our credits. Create a new empty game object under the CanvasCredits and name it CreditsText. Drag all elements <b>EXCEPT</b> the Black Fade Credits image to the child of this new game object. This will allow all text to be moved and controlled by one object.
10. Open the Credits animation and start recording. At the 0 second mark, set the Black Fade Credits image to be active in the scene and invisible. At the 1 second mark, set the Black Fade Credits image to be fully visible and still active in the scene. 
11. At the 1 second mark, set all elements if the Credits Text children to be active in the scene and be visible. Set the position of the Credits Text object to be below the Black Fade Credits image (It will be below and outside of the Cube Room View). </br>

<b>NOTE:</b> How long this animation needs to be is fully dependent on how many names and titles you used. You want you credits to move along at a pace that is slow enough to read but fast enough so that the user doesn't get bored. For our animator, we needed 33 seconds for all Credits Text to clear the screen in a proper manner; however, this timing may differ for you. We will use 33 in these instructions, but you can just substitute whatever number you find works for you. </br>

12. At the 33 second mark, set the Credits Text position so that the very bottom of the Credits Text just exits the user's view.
13. At the 34 second mark, ensure that the Black Fade Credits object is recorded in the animator as still being active and still being fully visible. You will need to unset and set these setting again to ensure that it is recorded in the animator at that mark. At the 35 second mark, set the Black Fade Credits image to be invisible and the image to be <b>NOT</b> active in the scene. Stop recording. If you did this correctly, you can press play on this animation and the credits will display properly with the screen first fading to black, the credits scrolling through at a nice pace, and the screen then fading back to normal. Again, the timing may take a few tries to get right unless you made a lucky guess.
14. In the hierarchy, set the Black Fade Credits image to be not active in the scene. We do not want the image to be there until the animator tells it to be there.
15. Attach the animator.Play method with input Credits to the ButtonCredits button and try to play the game. You should now have working credits in your game. </br>

Congratulations on completing all instructions! We hope you have enjoyed creating these projects, and have possibly learned a thing or two. 
